Here are some interesting Cores or tweaks in sets I've made that I find can help in alot of situations

+

+

Spiker+Wish Mixmence+Fast SubToxic Jirachi

This Core is a big Problem in the road for a Offensive team. SubToxic Jirachi Alongside Spikes and Mixmence destroy Offensive teams with their coverage and spikes alongside these pokemon is Dangerous and the typing combos also are great

+

TauntThunder Ttar+Spdef Venusaur
This Core murders so many Bulky Stall and Balance Teams and Causes so many Switches.
Bulky Waters hate this Core as they can't recover against this Core reliably and Skarm can't get Spikes up as Taunt prevents that.
Alongside Spikes this Core racks up alot of Damage

+

Charizard+Defensive Flygon

This Core is strong Offensively while helping the pokemon involved.
Charizard Breaks through alot of the Metagame such as Metagross,Jirachi,And Celebi however it struggles with Mons like Ttar and Aero. That's where Flygon comes in. Flygon is A Great Check to Tyranitar and Aero and can open Charizard up later in games to finish off teams that have lost their checks due to Flygon's presence.

+

+

Twave Starmie+Bslam Jirachi+Any hard hitting pokemon with low or middling speed

This is a Core I like to use on paraspam teams
Twave Starmie and Bslam Jirachi spread Paralysis so well while offering the Utility of Rapid Spin and Wish Respectively which can keep this hard hitting attackers health to keep slugging with these pokemon.
Side Note:Wish also helps Starmie to Continue Rapid spinning as it pleases. Also this Hard hitting pokemon could be anything from Rhydon to Cb Tar. I'm just using Medicham as an example

Sets:

Houndoom @ Leftovers
Ability:Flash Fire
EVs:252SpA/80Spd/176Spe
Modest Nature
-FireBlast
-Pursuit
Will-O-Wisp
-Roar

Roar on Houndoom allows it to Switch out Bulky waters and Blissey and Possibly drag out things it wants to Pursuit Such as Gengar and Celebi.
This is Great alongside Spikes

Tyranitar @ Leftovers
Ability:Sand Stream
EVs:252Hp/252SpA/4Spdef
-Pursuit
-Crunch
-Focus Punch
-Surf

Anytime I run this set on Ladder I always see I didn't know Tar got Surf and What does it do.
So to sum up what it does is that it hits all of opposing Tyranitar,Aero,Moltres,and Charizard Super Effectively,while chipping Metagross and Swampert switch ins as well.
It doesn't fit on every team but if you can fit it definitely try it out

This are all of what I've got to share now with the Adv Community
Keep learning, Keep Experimenting, and Keep Playing

