Metagross @ Leftovers (preferred)
Ability: Clear Body
- Agility
- Explosion
- Meteor Mash
- Light Screen

Team post attached.

So...19 years into playing ADV, I had a team that needed a Rock resist. Actually, the way I looked at it, I needed a Toxic resist....as Zangoose just was not cutting it, as cool as it is.

Also I felt that I could be more robust against Bolt-Beam (more so Jynx / Registeel and non-STAB electric). So I added this Metagross.
Basically it also is another thing to battle Snorlax/Blissey better too.

This is a Flexible team player with still the best Explosion in the tier.

I have been reading these posts about Slop and why Meta is sometimes worse than Registeel: I would give this a nod back over Registeel for Spikeless Mix-Offense , if there is fear about Meta opening you up to “special” attackers more. (Yes we all realize Registeel is not quite so bad, but just coming in and thunder-waving everything just isn’t my cup of tea. Also I think Skarm and Gar are, in theory, still huge problems for the typical Registeel. A bit too spike bait-y.)

This Metagross can be used to support Super Celebi or DDTar. Ideally you want that light screen to set up or just buffer the match up against some other stuff. Heck you scroll to the end of this post you will see the other 5 teammates I was using this with…anything will like a Light Screen buffer.

Agility to not be as weak to (or get picked off by) Flygon / Dugtrio.

Agility just enables you with options; let's you dictate a bit more. This is not a sweeping tool, but a timing tool, and ‘mess with a way the opponent can normally revenge meta’ tool. Light Screen is also a filler -- more to use on the ‘opponent’s protect turn’ ….in some rare cases that would just be a added bonus to pull off, and then still explode the next turn on the non-protect turn.

Anyways...

Assuming you have Agility’d, then Explosion as a threat/tool is great momentum that makes the most of Light Screen turns to the next teammate or sequence you might have planned for battle.

Think about this in theory -- You can free-roll when faster, to put up a light screen. Like, eek out a Light Screen and fish for misses from FireBlast / Hydros, when still at close to 100% and faster, it could be a free-roll to get that screen up.

Like in cases where you either have to decide “Now...Do I put the screen up., or explode?” – just put the screen up, maybe? Especially if you already had a plan to have a teammate like DDTar set up anyway. Then 15-20% of the time anyway, the attack someone tries to get Meta with will            miss, and you can still Explode or whatnot!

Meta is going to live anything with a Light Screen up.

Light screen, + Agility, in my particular case, theoretically, was going to give some more options against stuff like Starmie/Endeavor Swampert, Moltres/Charizard, and at least help me dictate more against the aforementioned Flygon and Dugtrio, which I seemed weak to. Could be something in a pinch to 1v1 Zapdos or Suicune (sacrificing itself to do so, obviously) but at least leave a Light Screen. Something it would not have normally be doing if it was just the 'normal' metagross.

The slight downfalls of this set would be  (a)  you are pretty sad to get Meta paralyzed (freaking-A if Bliss is T-wave, or if Snorlax gets the para...)  , plus (b) you are not the “sweeper” Agility meta (but so what?) and (c) you are losing EQ, so your Metagross mirror is going to be shitty. Jirachi is going to be shittier. Magneton is going to be shittier. Opposing Registeel is going to be shittier.)

I would argue that it is not so big of a deal. Just switch ,or if you had to, explode on them anyway. You are going to chunk them. It is a bit sad when you have to explode against Skarm , and it is not “Houdini”-level explosion, but you will still do , what, like 60-70% ? And it prevents the Spike from going down.

If Magneton gets you, again, you can at least leave a Light Screen, then hopefully you go to town with like a  Lum DDTar as follow-up.

You still afford to have an Explosion with near max attack and adamant ( I would imagine…you can explore EVs that you would want, Agility benchmarks, Speed without Agility boost, etc.)

I hadn’t used Agility Meta in so so long, but then came up with this creative tweak. Hope you enjoy thinking about it , and/or trying to use it on a team.

I think one reason was that Houdini (CB) became so common; and then, otherwise, to use Agility ...it meant that Magneton feels pretty much        necessary. I think the player-base is also just valuing the idea to “beat-down” Skarm and Explode to prevent Spike and preserve momentum ,        as we are all getting tired of MagDol + Lax and stuff…

Heck I was using this on an Electabuzz/Golduck team!
-Golduck (Lum, Cloud nine is nice – Hypnosis + Cross Chop, Water + Ice, legal set!) Vestigial Bulky Water EVs, as this was my best one-time Rock resist switch in before I added Metagross...)
-Electabuzz (more Cross Chop and Ice/Grass/Elec coverage)
-Super Celebi
-DDTar (Lum)
-MixMence (Fire + DClaw , at least , I like a fair bit of Sp. Def, and with Wish) --> (Meta + Mence is timeless…)
See attached.

