https://pokepast.es/0e59c6e3f2cb80a2

My friend happened to swing me this a while back. Some casual ZapDug antics with a few uncommon appearances, let's get to it

Lead

Yktvibesss by now, this is 2026 ADV where the only real leads are Ttar and Zap (lmao I'm kidding)
Taking advantage of favorable matchups to substitute and send in the next participant
Baton passing out of Ttar- and we got options baby!

the expected response
shutting sh*t down

the stage setter
Aye how many appeal points does Foc Punch get in contests? That sh*t is quite a show once we get them rolling.
Zap into Skarm/Water, they go Bliss, you sub, click baton pass, she breaks the sub for Breloom
Freeeee Spore. But wait, do you even have to? Pop a sub and watch what they do. Humor yourself to see if this worrisome switch-in would like to get decked in the face. Or be a big brain, press hp ghost to nail Gengar. Loom gets forced out when the punch is well-resisted so choose accordingly. Sub feels uncomfortable in sand esp when Ttar leads and this is an issue. Now see the typical dynamics at play that grant Loom free entry can be taken advantage of. The baton pass will always bring Loom into a desirable scenario to force a switch, so free damage on the opponent or preventing damage taken (via sleep) is probable. RoarMons can interfere or the occasional slower baton pass might happen. We do have teammates to take on attacks it even resists like crunch/rock slide, tbolt, eq.

on crunch-time the whole game. NO room to be goofy, standing on business. Immediately coming into Mence to stop that dragon dance nonsense, and is coming rigggght out if Mence uses d claw/fire blast. We letting the hpumps go, Skarm may as well learn to surf. Metagross can get it too, bro is not safe with that CB mm, don't let me get into Torrent. Pop the sub on Meta tho, you never know when it may boom or press hp grass. Speaking of that, if Zap doesn't have hp grass we on that ass! This Swampert is often sent into the fray to dissuade pesky folks but please do not get statused. Ttar is generally ez but mixed max Spe is quite an experience.
Look, I know what you're thinking: just give the Pert defense EVs for god's sake! But don't you get tired of fast food if you eat it too often? Do we default for the sake of convenience/familiarity, or can we try something new? Where the spice at? Relaxed Pert are McDonald's fries, a solid reputable choice, and this Pert is some cajun fries with tahini sauce.

is hitting hard as possible, scoring easy 2hkos on Mence, Zapdos, & Boldmie. Originally this was a curseLax which is fine but it's immediate power is good and I don't wanna slow the pace too much. Focus punch is awesome to use into Zapdos, Blissey, and Skarm. You can focus punch an incoming steel-type, Pert, or Ttar when big bird switches out, same for blob as this gets past counter. Body Slam/Double Edge the choice is yours. Could run eq as 4th move for higher damage on Meta and to stop Ttar from delivering it's own focus punch. But honestly we get hits in, we boom & that's how we go out.

Its , you know what he's here for. Max out the speed if you desire. Everyone slower is essentially a target of Dugtrio but which Mons are more desirable to trap?
Celebi: not giving it the opportunity to do anything. Come in on leech, any non-se move, or stop calm mind.
Metagross: it saves Pert the hassle of putting him down. When to switch in you ask? Gotta be the double or the revenge kill.
+1 ddTar or mixed
Raikou because this guy might run through the team with 1 calm mind, a common sentiment for many offensive teams.
Heracross is not particularly noteworthy but also dangerous, get rid of it.
Adamant (max speed) is great for the most defensive Celebi and to ensure any Metagross dies.

is a cool Mon here, with just the slightest opportunity late game it will run game on Aero and Jolt, smack the shit out of Starmie, and hopefully ko Zapdos. Part of me wants to use STAB so I don't have to rely so heavily on Dug to handle Celebi but that hp rock does wonders after a dragon dance. Be cautious with him, you want high health when it's time to dance. There may be circumstances where you stomach an undesirable attack such as non-STAB rock slides or oppo Snorlax's bslam/return in order to boost up. Intimidate is making this happen, don't be afraid to sack someone to ensure Gyara will safely boost. In front of special attackers who can't tbolt he normally does well so those are your safer opportunities. If Bliss is chipped enough (and you considerably) it can kamikaze on the double edge so she can't softboil.
Try not to dragon dance too early‒ you will give the healthy Skarm free spikes whenever you do this.
No lie my bro was cooking when he sent this, Gyarados initially had taunt which is perfect for the previous scenario. But sacrifice the strongest neutral coverage (double edge) to now prevent Milo/Pert toxic + additional spikes from coming your way. Having taunt is truly the final anti-Skarm measure on this team.
Zapdos is here to dissuade & take advantage of spikers, Breloom can possibly inhibit them, and Gyarados may stabilize the field by shutting down passive interference (pshhh as if thunder wave is "passive"). So yeah when Skarmory is weakened from previous focus punches or zZzZz you can dance easily. I will say beware that each spiker has something for Gyara: drill peck, zap cannon, boom.

sure as hell threatens us, Pert has to switch in on rock slide to shift momentum. Aero can't just waltz in either, ddance or a substitute (prior to it's entry) will end it. OK OK bro get the McDs but run this
Swampert (M) @ Leftovers
Ability: Torrent
EVs: 240 HP / 228 Def / 40 SpA
Bold Nature
IVs: 0 Atk
- Surf/Hydro Pump
- Roar
- Refresh
- Ice Beam
The 40 EVs doubles your chance for the ohko on regular ddMence

Electrics
can be difficult to handle with an overreliance on Snorlax. Usually only 1 to deal with so its far from terrifying.
can baton pass out of arena trap
Raikou & Zap can give issues depending on the hidden power. Spore may not be the best answer because of substitute. Its usually up to Lax or endPerty.

Spikes
Without rapid spin they can be an eyesore solely on your side. No need to be uptight about 1 layer, some of the best balance builds can give up a layer. We can simulate in our mind the most probable interactions but sequencing and intuitive responses in real life is what matters. Breloom or Lax can get on the field, possibly behind a sub, because Skarm is deciding to spike up. No fire move for Forretress is bleh but who needs it? Forre can't really touch Zap anyways and we can do something interesting from there. EndPerty could use the spike (or two) to activate Salac.

with hp grass + rock slide is just gaaaah damn. Can possibly outspeed Pert, Zap can't make progress, if sleep clause is active Loom can't hit it (could also get fire blasted). Alright first re-collect the energy‒ when emotions are not leveled that is where irrational decisions occur. Ttar thinks it can hit anyone right? Aigh sure, so as the recipient of this you make damn sure you bait that Ttar, get Dugtrio in, and show them we mean business.

This team is entertaining fr but also a little riskay. Feel free to make mods, the chosen spreads aren't rigid. You can tailor a few Mons to your perceived concerns. I might even consider a bulkier Gyara because 1. most Skarm are slow anyways and 2. no atk EVs Gyara +2 has the same strength as 252 adamant +1 (what you need), so you could go really bulky and wrap up the show when opportunity presents itself.
ADV Offense run it up

